---
title: "More Bugs"
subtitle: ""
date: 2020-02-29T09:00:00-06:00
tags: ["apple", "bugs"]
---

Previously, on "Madison deals with bugs" there were Safari, Xcode, and iOS bugs. Continuing with that trend, there are more iOS and Xcode bugs.

With the release of Xcode 11.3.1, Apple included a fix for issues starting the simulator when multiple versions of Xcode are installed. I never ran into this issue until the new version of Xcode released, so I'm counting this one as introducing a bug rather than fixing it.

The other major issue right now is that Apple still hasn't fixed the automation test bug were web content is inaccessible. Although it was slated for 13.3.1, it was not included in the final release. Starting with beta 1 of iOS 13.4, the accessibility service can now interact with web content again, but I discovered another regression: the keyboard is out of sync with the system as if a web element has `autofocus` set, the accessibility service believes that the keyboard is up when it is in fact not since WebKit does not honor that attribute. This means that text input is impossible until the keyboard is dismissed (e.g. backgrounding and foregrounding the application). This would have been fine if they would have kept trying to fix it, however, as of iOS 13.4 beta 3 it appears that they have backed out all of the changes iOS has returned to the completely busted behavior of iOS 13.3.

---

I'll repeat what I said last time: Apple needs to be more agile when it comes to fixing bugs that impact its developers. I know that they have planned major cycles and they like to have releases with lots of fixes in them, but it is far move convenient for developers to get patch releases more frequently. Since major bugs like the accessibility service being broken for nearly 4 months now haven't been resolved, I'm starting to worry about the changes they've supposedly made to their software engineering process for Xcode 12 and iOS 14.
